NEW YORK CITY — Socialist Zohran Mamdani will be New York City’s next mayor, defeating former Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Republican nominee Curtis Sliwa on Tuesday night.

Mamdani received 50.4% of the vote with 75% of ballots counted so far, beating Cuomo, at 41.6% support, by around 9 points. The Associated Press called the race at 9:34 p.m. New York City voters came out in such force to vote that the city saw the highest turnout since 1969, with more than 2 million ballots cast by that time.

With the win, Mamdani becomes the city’s first Muslim mayor and one of its youngest mayors ever.
Mamdani rode his youth movement and social media savvy to the finish line after launching his campaign last year as an unknown in national politics. Now, he’ll be a household name in the Democratic Party.

The 34-year-old will now have a chance to implement his hallmark campaign promises: freezing the rent, making childcare free, and instituting government-run grocery stores. Republicans and centrist Democrats had gone to great lengths to defeat him, with some Republicans in the waning moments of the race endorsing Cuomo to drum up last-minute support.

Mamdani arrived at his victory party in Brooklyn’s Paramount Theater to screaming, dancing and bouncing supporters. Some wore Democratic Socialists of America gear, and several “DSA” chants broke out just before Mamdani took the stage.

When the self-described socialist spoke, washed in blue and yellow light characteristic of his campaign colors, he was unapologetic for his beliefs. “I am Muslim. I am a Democratic socialist. And most damning of all, I refuse to apologize for any of this,” Mamdani said, adding that “convention has held us back.”

Much of his speech focused on the change he’s promised to enact in his administration. He believes he’s been handed a “mandate” to do so.

“New York, tonight you have delivered a mandate for change,” he said. “A mandate for a new kind of politics, a mandate for a city we can afford, and a mandate for a government that delivers exactly that.”

Cuomo’s failure to take the helm of the nation’s largest city flattens any hopes he had toward a political comeback. His prior scandals, including sexual harassment claims he has denied, proved too much for the former governor to win in the Democratic primary or as an independent in the general election.

Mamdani had scathing criticism ready for the former governor, whom he wants to bury in the past.

“My friends, we have toppled a political dynasty,” he said. “I wish Andrew Cuomo only the best in private life, but let tonight be the final time I utter his name as we turn the page on a politics that abandons the many and answers only to the few.”

Sliwa, who had an uphill climb in the deep blue stronghold and was never backed by Trump, drew little support.

New York City’s choice of a socialist focused on affordability after several years of public safety hawk Mayor Eric Adams signals a leftward shift in the city’s politics. But the city’s choice of Mamdani could also be a credit to the candidate himself, who tried to moderate his stances after winning the primary and charmed business leaders and reluctant Democratic power players.

One of Mamdani’s first issues when he is inaugurated as mayor will be President Donald Trump, who has threatened to cut off funding to the city and wants to send the National Guard. The president has called Mamdani a “communist.”

Mamdani put himself forward as a leader in the movement against Trump in the closing minutes of his speech. “If anyone can show a nation betrayed by Donald Trump how to defeat him, it is the city that gave rise to him,” he said, “and if there is any way to terrify a despot, it is by dismantling the very conditions that allowed him to accumulate power.”

“So Donald Trump, since I know you’re watching, I have four words for you: turn the volume up,” the socialist declared to a booming crowd. Mamdani said that Trump would have to “get through all of us” in order to mess with New Yorkers.

After reiterating his campaign agenda, Mamdani froze his people-powered message into history. “New York, this power, it’s yours. This city belongs to you.”

As the curtains closed on one of the most polarizing New York City mayoral races in history, Mamdani stood with his family on stage and basked in the moment. Less than a year ago, the city hardly knew his name.

Now he’s led his socialist movement to the pinnacle of New York politics: Gracie Mansion.
